Jerusalem: Palestinians killed in fresh clashes with Israel
15 December 2017
Share this with Facebook Share this with Twitter Share this with Messenger Share this with Email Share


Media captionFriday saw a fresh wave of protests over President Trump's Jerusalem move
Three Palestinians have died in Gaza during clashes with Israeli troops near the border, Palestinian officials say.

More than 100 were hurt in Gaza and the occupied West Bank amid fresh protests over Donald Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

In the West Bank, an Israeli policeman was wounded in a Palestinian knife-attack. The attacker was shot and died in hospital later.

Violence has soared since Mr Trump's declaration on the contested city.

Israel regards the whole of Jerusalem as its indivisible capital, while Palestinians claim the eastern sector - occupied by Israel since 1967 - as the capital of a future state.

Anger in the West Bank and delight in West Jerusalem
Mr Trump's affirmation of the Israeli position was condemned across the Arab and Muslim world, and hailed in Israel.

His announcement marked the end of decades of official US neutrality on the issue.

Stones and gunfire
Palestinian medical sources say the men were shot dead on the eastern and northern borders of the Gaza Strip.

The Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) said they were investigating the reports.

Clashes erupted following Muslim Friday prayers, as Palestinian demonstrators lit tyres and threw stones at Israeli troops, who fired tear gas and live rounds across the West Bank and over the border with the Gaza Strip, reports say.

Palestinian aims a slingshot in Hebron (15/12/17)Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
Palestinian factions had called for a "day of rage" on Friday
Palestinian medics tend to a wounded Palestinian who is alleged to have stabbed an Israeli border policeman on the outskirts of Ramallah (15/12/17)Image copyrightEPA
Image caption
A Palestinian stabbed a border policeman, was shot and later died, Israeli police say
On the outskirts of the West Bank city of Ramallah, a Palestinian stabbed a border policeman before the attacker was shot and wounded, police say.

Spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said police were investigating reports that the attacker may have been wearing an explosive vest. Palestinian medics later said it had been fake, Reuters news agency reports.

Friday's deaths bring to eight the number of Palestinians killed in an escalation of violence with Israel since Mr Trump's declaration on 6 December.

Two of the dead were militants were killed in Gaza on Tuesday when explosives they were transporting reportedly went off accidentally. Israel denied any involvement.

As well as clashes on the ground over the past week, several rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israel, which has responded with air strikes on militant facilities there.